In this tutorial, we will set up the crosshair icons for each of the weapons.
I have prepared several .png files. They are taken from shooter game content. I modified them a little.
In order to import images into the content of our game, just drag the images
into the content browser, or you can drag the whole folder. The UE will automatically create assets for
each of the images. All external resources: images, audio files Unreal automatically
converts to native * uasset format. This is done for cross-platform reasons.
That is, for the convenience of packaging resources when publishing for various platforms. I also added icons for the
rifle and launcher. We will configure them in the next lesson, and now we open our PlayerHUD widget.
And let's add an image for the crosshair. To do this, in the search on the left, enter the name of the Image UI element.
We can immediately customize the preview of the sight. To do this, in details appearance, select
any picture in the property Image . Let's put rifle crosshair. We can freely adjust the size of the
image we are interested in. We can also click on the checkbox property SizeToContent.
This property will fix the original image size. Next, we need to fix
this image in the center of our screen. For this, the elements have a special property
called Anchors and in the window that opens, select the central element.
That is, the origin for our picture will be in the center. We set PositionX = 0, PositionY = 0.
This is also not enough for us, because the counting starts from the upper left corner, and we need to
move the image to the center. There is a property Alignment for this purpose.
It varies from zero to one. If we put (0.5, 0.5), then the origin point will move to the center of the picture.
We compile the widget and we can already see how it looks. Click play. The crosshair is displayed.
We also see our green debug scope, which we will remove soon. Let's make it so
that when changing weapons, a sight picture will be displayed that corresponds to the current weapon.
First, we need to create a new data structure. Go to CoreTypes.
Let's name the data structure WeaponUIData. This structure will store images that correspond to the
sight of the weapon and its icon. The data type for textures in the UE is called UTexture2D.
Create the first field in the structure, call it MainIcon. This field will store the main weapon icon.
Copy the property and name the second field CrosshairIcon. This field will store the crosshair icon.
Go to the BaseWeapon header file. Create a new property in the protected section of the FWeaponUIData type.
Let's call it UIData.
And add an uproperty macro on top, that is, for each type of weapon, we will need to initialize this structure
in the blueprint . In the user widget, we will need to
access this structure. Property is in the protected section, so we need to create a
getter function for this variable. We call it GetUIData. Add the const specifier.
And it returns UIData.
Go to the weapon component class. Here you also need to create a wrapper function
that returns the UIData of the current weapon. Let's see how you can do this.
Let's create a function called GetWeaponUIData. The main problem with this
function is that we need to check if the CurrentWeapon pointer is not null.
If it is nonzero, then we can call its GetUIData function.
And if it is zero, then we need to return an empty structure. This is not a very good design, you can do it a little differently.
You can make the return type boolean.
And if we have a non-null pointer CurrentWeapon, then we will return true.
If CurrentWeapon is null, then we will return false.
And we will pass the structure we need by reference as a parameter to our function.
Let's write this down. And, if the weapon pointer is non-zero,
then we assign our link to CurrentWeapon-> GetUIData. Thus, to use
this function, clients first need to check whether this function returns
true and only then access the data. Let's move the body of the function to a .cpp file.
We can also add const, because this function does not change the internal state of the class.
It remains to add the getter function to the widget class. It will have the same signature as the weapon component.
Add an uproperty on top so that we can access it in blueprints.
And also add a header file with our STUCoreTypes.h types.
Go to the .cpp file.
To speed up the process, let's completely copy the body of the GetHealthPercent function,
because our new function will look approximately the same. We include the header file with the weapon component.
And we will change the necessary lines of code. So the first thing. If we do not have an owner, then the function must return false.
Second: we change the class that needs to be obtained from the player to the weapon component.
We will also change the name of the variable. Cast to the weapon component.
And if the pointer to the weapon component is zero, then we return false, and if we have reached the end,
then we call the GetWeaponUIData function and pass the UIData parameter there.
In fact, in the widget, we make a wrapper function over the weapon component function so as not to do this
transformation in the blueprint. Let's go over what we have done. We have declared a structure
for the weapon data UI. Created a property with the given type in the base weapon class. We also created a getter function
for this object. In the weapon component, we get the UIData for the current weapon if it is valid.
And in the widget, we access the weapon component and call its function. Thus, in the blueprint,
we will get the data for the current weapon. In the GameHUD class, comment out the call to the DrawCrosshair function.
We no longer need the debug sight.
So, in the details panel of our image, opposite the property Brush,
select bind and create a new function. Let's call it GetCrosshairImage. You cannot simply bind the image
because it is part of the SlateBrush structure. Let's figure it out now.
So, we call our GetWeaponUIData function. The node that returns data by reference
has an additional pin on the right. Let's split our structure.
To call the branch node, you can click anywhere in the blueprint
while holding down the b key. We connect the return value of our function to it.
We connect true to the return node. If the data is valid, then we can set the picture.
We take out the thread from the return value. Selecting make slate brush. We open this node completely.
And connect the crosshair icon pin to the Image pin. We want the size to be the same as the original image.
Select the MakeVector2D node. You can get the size of the original texture image
using the GetSizeX and GetSizeY methods. The width and height are integer so an int to float conversion
occurs. A transformation node is automatically created on the graph.
Duplicate the return node and if our getter returned false, then we will simply return
the default structure. We still had to do some logic in blueprints,
but this is more likely related to the design: what image to display in the interface, how it will be resized.
So let's leave that in the blueprints. It remains to set pictures for each type of weapon.
Open launcher. Find our property UIData.
And we set the picture for the sight.
You can immediately install the weapon icon. We will use it in the next lesson.
Select LauncherMainIcon and open up the rifle. You can find UIData in the search, so as not to scroll.
Install the icon for the rifle
and the image of the sight.
We launch the project.
A sight for a rifle has appeared, we are changing weapons. The sight has changed to a launcher. Our scene is bright enough
, so the scope is not particularly noticeable. This can be solved by shading the interface later.
Now let's remove the direct light in SkySphere. Press clear and set sun height = -1,
that is, the sky has become night. This is such a quick fix. The sight has become more noticeable.
Let's kill the character. Let's run into the volume and the crosshair turned into a white square, that is, this is the default SlateBrush structure.
Our UIData get function returns false when the character is dead.